Quickstart - Claude Code Docs Documentation Index Fetch the complete documentation index at: /docs/llms.txt Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further. Skip to main content Claude Code Docs home page English Search... ⌘ K Ask Assistant Claude Developer Platform Claude Code on the Web Claude Code on the Web Search... Navigation Getting started Quickstart Getting started Build with Claude Code Administration Configuration Reference Agent SDK What&#x27;s New Resources Getting started Overview Quickstart Changelog Core concepts How Claude Code works Extend Claude Code Explore the .claude directory Explore the context window Prompt caching Use Claude Code Store instructions and memories Permission modes Manage sessions Common workflows Prompt library Best practices Platforms and integrations Overview Remote Control Claude Code on the web Claude Code on desktop Chrome extension Computer use (preview) Visual Studio Code JetBrains IDEs Code review & CI/CD Claude Code in Slack On this page Before you begin Step 1: Install Claude Code Step 2: Log in to your account Step 3: Start your first session Step 4: Ask your first question Step 5: Make your first code change Step 6: Use Git with Claude Code Step 7: Fix a bug or add a feature Step 8: Test out other common workflows Essential commands Pro tips for beginners What’s next? Getting help Getting started Quickstart Copy page Welcome to Claude Code! Copy page This quickstart guide will have you using AI-powered coding assistance in a few minutes. By the end, you’ll understand how to use Claude Code for common development tasks. ​ Before you begin Make sure you have: A terminal or command prompt open If you’ve never used the terminal before, check out the terminal guide A code project to work with A Claude subscription (Pro, Max, Team, or Enterprise), Claude Console account, or access through a supported cloud provider This guide covers the terminal CLI. Claude Code is also available on the web , as a desktop app , in VS Code and JetBrains IDEs , in Slack , and in CI/CD with GitHub Actions and GitLab . See all interfaces . ​ Step 1: Install Claude Code To install Claude Code, use one of the following methods: Native Install (Recommended) Homebrew WinGet macOS, Linux, WSL: curl -fsSL https://claude.ai/install.sh | bash Windows PowerShell: irm https: // claude.ai / install.ps1 | iex Windows CMD: curl -fsSL https://claude.ai/install.cmd -o install.cmd && install.cmd && del install.cmd If you see The token &#x27;&&&#x27; is not a valid statement separator , you’re in PowerShell, not CMD. If you see &#x27;irm&#x27; is not recognized as an internal or external command , you’re in CMD, not PowerShell. Your prompt shows PS C:\ when you’re in PowerShell and C:\ without the PS when you’re in CMD. If the install command fails with syntax error near unexpected token &#x27;&lt;&#x27; , a 403 , or another curl error, see Troubleshoot installation to match the error to a fix and for alternative install methods. Git for Windows is recommended on native Windows so Claude Code can use the Bash tool. If Git for Windows is not installed, Claude Code uses PowerShell as the shell tool instead. WSL setups do not need Git for Windows. Native installations automatically update in the background to keep you on the latest version. brew install --cask claude-code Homebrew offers two casks. claude-code tracks the stable release channel, which is typically about a week behind and skips releases with major regressions. claude-code@latest tracks the latest channel and receives new versions as soon as they ship. Homebrew installations do not auto-update. Run brew upgrade claude-code or brew upgrade claude-code@latest , depending on which cask you installed, to get the latest features and security fixes. winget install Anthropic.ClaudeCode WinGet installations do not auto-update. Run winget upgrade Anthropic.ClaudeCode periodically to get the latest features and security fixes. You can also install with apt, dnf, or apk on Debian, Fedora, RHEL, and Alpine. ​ Step 2: Log in to your account Claude Code requires an account to use. Start an interactive session with the claude command and you’ll be prompted to log in on first use: claude For Claude subscription or Console accounts, follow the prompts to complete authentication in your browser. To switch accounts later or re-authenticate, type /login inside the running session: /login You can log in using any of these account types: Claude Pro, Max, Team, or Enterprise (recommended) Claude Console (API access with pre-paid credits). On first login, a “Claude Code” workspace is automatically created in the Console for centralized cost tracking. Amazon Bedrock, Google Cloud’s Agent Platform, or Microsoft Foundry (enterprise cloud providers) A self-hosted Claude apps gateway , if your organization runs one: your admin pre-configures the gateway URL, and /login opens directly on the Cloud gateway screen for you to sign in with corporate SSO Once logged in, your credentials are stored and you won’t need to log in again. ​ Step 3: Start your first session Open your terminal in any project directory and start Claude Code: cd /path/to/your/project claude You’ll see the Claude Code prompt with the version, current model, and working directory shown above it. Type /help for available commands or /resume to continue a previous conversation. After logging in (Step 2), your credentials are stored on your system. Learn more in Credential Management . ​ Step 4: Ask your first question Let’s start with understanding your codebase. Try one of these commands: what does this project do? Claude will analyze your files and provide a summary. You can also ask more specific questions: what technologies does this project use? where is the main entry point? explain the folder structure You can also ask Claude about its own capabilities: what can Claude Code do? how do I create custom skills in Claude Code? can Claude Code work with Docker? Claude Code reads your project files as needed. You don’t have to manually add context. ​ Step 5: Make your first code change Now let’s make Claude Code do some actual coding. Try a simple task: add a hello world function to the main file Claude Code will: Find the appropriate file Show you the proposed changes Ask for your approval Make the edit Claude Code always asks for permission before modifying files. You can approve individual changes or enable “Accept all” mode for a session. ​ Step 6: Use Git with Claude Code Claude Code makes Git operations conversational: what files have I changed? commit my changes with a descriptive message You can also prompt for more complex Git operations: create a new branch called feature/quickstart show me the last 5 commits help me resolve merge conflicts ​ Step 7: Fix a bug or add a feature Claude is proficient at debugging and feature implementation. Describe what you want in natural language: add input validation to the user registration form Or fix existing issues: there&#x27;s a bug where users can submit empty forms - fix it Claude Code will: Locate the relevant code Understand the context Implement a solution Run tests if available ​ Step 8: Test out other common workflows There are a number of ways to work with Claude: Refactor code refactor the authentication module to use async/await instead of callbacks Write tests write unit tests for the calculator functions Update documentation update the README with installation instructions Code review review my changes and suggest improvements Talk to Claude like you would a helpful colleague. Describe what you want to achieve, and it will help you get there. ​ Essential commands Here are the most important commands for daily use. Shell commands run from your terminal to start or resume Claude Code. Session commands run inside Claude Code after it starts. Shell commands Command What it does Example claude Start interactive mode claude claude "task" Run a one-time task claude "fix the build error" claude -p "query" Run one-off query, then exit claude -p "explain this function" claude -c Continue most recent conversation in current directory claude -c claude -r Resume a previous conversation claude -r Session commands Command What it does Example /clear Clear conversation history /clear /help Show available commands /help /exit or Ctrl+D Exit Claude Code /exit See the CLI reference for the complete list of shell commands and the commands reference for the complete list of session commands. ​ Pro tips for beginners For more, see best practices and common workflows . Be specific with your requests Instead of: “fix the bug” Try: “fix the login bug where users see a blank screen after entering wrong credentials” Use step-by-step instructions Break complex tasks into steps: 1. create a new database table for user profiles 2. create an API endpoint to get and update user profiles 3. build a webpage that allows users to see and edit their information Let Claude explore first Before making changes, let Claude understand your code: analyze the database schema build a dashboard showing products that are most frequently returned by our UK customers Save time with shortcuts Type / to see all commands and skills Use Tab for command completion Press ↑ for command history Press Shift+Tab to cycle permission modes ​ What’s next? Now that you’ve learned the basics, explore more advanced features: How Claude Code works Understand the agentic loop, built-in tools, and how Claude Code interacts with your project Best practices Get better results with effective prompting and project setup Common workflows Step-by-step guides for common tasks Extend Claude Code Customize with CLAUDE.md, skills, hooks, MCP, and more ​ Getting help In Claude Code : Type /help or ask “how do I…” Documentation : You’re here! Browse other guides Community : Join our Discord for tips and support Was this page helpful? Yes No Overview Changelog ⌘ I Claude Code Docs home page x linkedin Company Anthropic Careers Economic Futures Research News Trust center Transparency Help and security Availability Status Support center Learn Courses MCP connectors Customer stories Engineering blog Events Powered by Claude Service partners Startups program Terms and policies Privacy choices Privacy policy Disclosure policy Usage policy Commercial terms Consumer terms Assistant Responses are generated using AI and may contain mistakes.